Hey, Michael. Hello. Hello. Hello. Well, I'm excited. It's Tuesday. You ready to do another
Python Bytes? Do you mean it's Python Bytes Day? Yeah, it's Python Bytes Day. Yeah. Yeah,
I'm ready. Okay. Hello, and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines
directly to your earbuds. This is episode 375, recorded March 19th, 2024. I think I
got that right. And I am Brian Okken. And I'm Michael Kennedy. And our episode today
is sponsored by Scout APM. Thank you, Scout. Listen to their section later in the show.
If you'd like to connect to us, we're on Mastodon, and the links are in the show notes, but it's
@mkennedy, @brianocken, and @pythonbites, all on fosstodon.org. And if you'd like to
listen to this show live, we'd love to have you, but it's not necessary. You can listen
to us later. But if you want to listen to us live, go to pythonbytes.fm/live and see
all the details and see when the upcoming episode is. So yeah.
Indeed, indeed.
What do you got for us?
Well, I would like to start off by telling you about another country, maybe one you haven't
heard of. You've heard of Canada. You've heard of Canada. You've heard of the US. You've
heard of Germany. You've heard of Slovakia. You've heard of the Philippines. Have you
heard of Pi Country?
Oh, this should have a song with it. In a Pi Country.
Does it involve a banjo?
I hope not.
I know. I hope not, too.
We should have covered this on the 14th.
Anyway, Pi Country, Pi Day, all the things. Okay. So Pi Country is, it solves something
that might not sound like a great big problem until you try to deal with this and you're
like, are you serious? There are this many things. It's similar to dealing with time
zones. You're like, how complicated can it be? What are there, 24? No. And what are their
abbreviations and what are all the different ways in which they can be abbreviated and
so on? This is that for country. So it's a Python library to access ISO. These are standards.
Country, subdivision. Okay. What's a subdivision? Language, currency, and script definitions
and their translations for all the countries of the world, including deleted countries
that used to be countries, but are not. I would have considered those just former countries,
but deleted is a very digital way to think of it.
We just selected that part and we hit, you know, command backslash and it really deletes
it all the way. Yeah. Anyway, this is, this is really interesting and it's used by 17,
19, 17.9 thousand different projects, which is pretty cool. So here's the deal. So you
go in here and somewhere you can just go into it and you say, Pi country.countries, and
there's 249 here and you get these, not just a list of strings, but you get rich objects
back like the first one is Afghanistan. So country, it's a class. It has the alpha two
code, which is AF, the alpha three code, AFG. And that's the kind of stuff I'm talking about.
That's like, why are there so many variations? You can represent, you know, the shorthand
version, like just two letters, but you can also use three letters or there's numeric
versions. There's like the full name versus the colloquial name. So Afghanistan versus
the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. Oh, this is kind of cool. I might learn something.
Yeah, exactly. There's a lot more in here and there it has a dictionary like access
for the variation. So you can say, get alpha two equals D E and you'll get good old Deutschland
or you could say alpha, alpha three equals D E U or the name equals Germany or all these
different ways in which you can kind of query this or given one, you can obviously just
access all these properties like Brian, you would know that it's the Federal Republic
of Germany. It has fuzzy searching for countries. So I can say, give me England. It's like,
yeah, there's no England. What? But there's this thing called United Kingdom, which sort
of has its center in England maybe, and that's GB and so on. So yeah, pretty neat. You can
say fuzzy search for Kote and you get Kote de Ivore. I, you know, sorry folks from there,
but you know, you'll get, like, it'll even match when it's not exactly the right character,
right? Like a, Oh hat. I don't know what that's called on an umlaut, but a hat looking thing
instead, but you don't have that in the search, right? Yeah. So this is more, like I said,
there's more to this than just like, Oh, a list of countries. And then it's historic
countries. These are the ones, do they, since I read this, did they change it from historic
to deleted? I don't know. Historic countries, subdivisions. I'm like, what is a subdivision
of a country? This is like States or Providences. It's not nearly as strange as it sounds. There's
scripts also. What is the script? It's written language versus spoken language. Those might
be the same thing, but they might also not be the same. Like Latin, for example. Right?
Oh, okay. Currencies are in here. Languages are in here. Locales are in here. So if you
do anything with countries, this might be worth looking, looking at. That's pretty cool.
I'm still like hung up on the England isn't a country, but okay.
According to Pi country, it's not a country.
And also, so yeah, I'll have to look into this more.
Is it a subdivision? Maybe it's a subdivision.
And but also like, what's, where does the word Deutschland fit in for Germany? Is that
not even listed?
Yeah. Well, also since it has translations. So for example, German, if you ask a German
person where they're from, they'll say Deutschland, unless they're speaking English to people.
Right? Like they refer to it as Deutschland. But for some reason, we don't agree. We don't
call it that. We call it Germany. Right? So I don't know. It's interesting. I suspect
if you use the translations maybe, and you said, what is the official name of Germany?
It probably wouldn't say the Federal Republic of Germany would have that translated. Right?
Interesting.
Yeah. Switzerland is, I can't remember exactly, but yeah, it's different. It goes by different
names in different languages. So I think it also has those when it talks about the translations.
Cool. Neat.
Well, we could point to countries. I'm trying to do a transition or we could point to objects.
And does Python have pointers? You can't really point to a country. I don't know. Maybe. Point
to directions.
Canada is that way.
Canada is that way? No, Canada is this way.
Oh man.
We're probably pointing to different directions. Anyway, so Ned Batchelder has an article called
does Python have pointers? And I'm like, yeah, no, it doesn't. But it kind of does. Anyway,
I'm highlighting this because I think it's a really good article for somebody that's
coming from a language that does have pointers and stuff to Python because it's a good entryway
into names in Python. So the article does Python have pointers, but it's kind of pointing
to the idea of like talking about the ID function. And I know about the ID function really well.
So if you say ID of an object or a variable name, it tells you like a number for what
it points to. Like where the, I don't know, it's a representation of the memory address
or something. That's kind of what a pointer is, right? But you can't in C and C++ and
Rust and other things, you can dereference it. Using that, you can create a variable.
Using the address, you can create a variable that points to that thing. And you cannot
do that within Python. So it is different, but also kind of everything is a pointer in
Python. And that's sort of Ned's point is that with our, with like just normal object,
we can say like my var equals 17. And then we can have, if you do my pointer, it doesn't
help you any, but you can do another variable that points to the same thing and it works.
It's when it's just sort of how names work. I'm describing this very poorly, but this
is a good entry point into how objects work. And luckily Ned also links to a talk he did,
values that refer to objects. And so he did a talk in 2015 and still the slides are up
in the video, but even the slides just going through it, it's really good to understand
just really how names work. We're just in Python, we just kind of point to things. And
so I'm going to link, we're going to link also to the 2015 article, Python names and
values. And really this was the trick when I, when I really could grok this thing with
Python, then I could, I could understand Python. Everything else seems easy after this. So
good job.
Yeah. Ned always has good writing. I'm subscribed to his RSS feed. I think it's interesting
to consider whether Python, you know, the article does Python have pointers, like boy
howdy does it. Yeah. Like it has more pointers than C++, which is insane. It doesn't
have a wider variety of ways to like dereference them, you know, it starts like casting a void
star, star to something else, but everything, literally everything in Python is a pointer.
Even numbers are pointers. Whereas in C++ numbers usually are value types. Right.
And you can have stuff that's on the stack. That's not a pointer, just has the value in
Python. There is no way to have just a value. Every, everything is a pointer, often pointers
to pointer, you know, you're traversing something to something. Right. It's like, I'm going
to find the dictionary of the class. And then I'm following that to where it points to,
to get to the value. So it's worth spending some time on, even though you don't ever see
a star or a, an ampersand in the context of like juggling pointers in Python.
Yeah. And like, like vectors or lists in Python are not, they're not the plate, the start
of a chunk of memory that represents all of your items. That's not what's going on. It's
something completely different. Forget that. So yeah.
Indeed, indeed. Very good. Very good.
Well changing gears a little bit. We'd like to thank Scout APM for sponsoring this episode.
Yes, we would. Let me tell you real quick about Scout APM. They're big supporters of
Python Bytes. So we appreciate that very much. So if you are tired of spending hours trying
to find the root cause of issues impacting your performance, then you owe it to yourself
to check out Scout APM. They're a leading Python application performance monitoring
tool, APM, that helps you identify and solve performance abnormalities faster and easier.
Scout APM ties bottlenecks such as memory leaks, slow database queries, background jobs,
and the dreaded N plus one queries that you can end up if you do lazy loading in your
ORM, and then you say, Oh no, why is it so slow? Why are you doing 200 database queries
for what should be one? So you can find out things like that. And it links it back directly
to the source code so you can spend less time in the debugger and healing logs and just
finding the problems and moving on. And you'll love it because it's built for developers
by developers. It makes it easy to get set up. Seriously, you can do it in less than
four minutes. So that's awesome. And the best part is the pricing is straightforward. You
only pay for the data that you use with no hidden overage fees or per seat pricing. And
I just learned this, Brian, they also have, they provide the pro version for free to all
open source projects. So if you're an open source maintainer and you want to have Scout
APM for that project, just shoot them a message or something on their pricing page about that.
So you can start your free trial and get instant insights today. Visit bythembytes.fm/scout.
The link is in your podcast player show notes as well. And please use that link. Don't just
search for them because otherwise they don't think you came from us and then they'd stop
supporting the show. So please use our link bythembytes.fm/scout. Check them out. It really
supports the show. Awesome. Thank you. It does. It sure does. Now, Brian, let's talk
about ingestion, data ingestion. Okay. So here's that open source CLI tool. It's not
exactly Python focused, but certainly useful for Python people. Ingestor, and it's straight
out of the web 2.0 days because it's dropping some of the vowels. It says copy data between
any source and any destination thinking database type things. So what you do is you just say
ingestor, ingest source database connection is whatever, source table is whatever. And
then the destination is where it goes. And all of a sudden now you have that. So do you
want your Postgres data to appear over in big query? Do you want your MongoDB collection
to show up in Postgres? One CLI command done. Oh, that's pretty cool. It's pretty cool,
right? Yeah. So it's a command line application that allows ingesting or copying data from
any source into any database. I mean, this child probably should be a star on any. How
about many, many data sources? Okay. Yeah. So if we jump over here to their docs where
like their homepage is kind of just a catch your interest. So you can copy all the, find
the sources and tell you about them in a second, but it says there's three ways to copy stuff
over. You can do an append, which is kind of cool. Like if you've got multiple data
sources that are localized saving of data and you want to put them all into one place.
Like if you had a bunch of SQL lite files from different locations, say you've got a
bunch of, I don't know, a bunch of IOT things, or you got a bunch of servers and they each
keep some data in a SQL lite file. You want to put that into one big database, right?
You could do append or you could say merge. If I'm guessing if the primary key is the
same, it just skips it. Or maybe it doesn't update to that thing. If the fields are different,
I don't know. Or you can just wipe it free and insert. So like a clean replacement with
delete and insert. Yeah. Yeah. Pretty cool. And then somewhere down here, supported sources.
Here's where I was joking about the any supports Postgres and it has, some of them are bidirectional
source or destination. Some are just source, some are just destination. Postgres, BigQuery,
you know, Flake, Redshift, Databricks, DFDB, Microsoft SQL Server, and CSV files are all
bidirectional. CSV files are bidirectional. Okay. But Mongo, Oracle, SQL lite, and MySQL
are only sources. So I don't know why MongoDB is not a destination because it's incredibly
easy to just have like a flat file, a flat table, no like nested stuff. I know if you're
copying from a relational database, but yeah, whatever. Still pretty cool, I think, to be
able to use this. So if you got just data you want to keep in sync or migrate over,
and you're thinking of writing Python code to do it, you might not have to write any
code at all.
Well, that's pretty cool. I don't know what Snowflake is. It's a great name.
Yeah, we're getting out of that season right now. It's starting to be warm and summer's
coming, but it'll be back in the fall, like maybe December. No.
That's funny. Cool. Well, yeah, very interesting. Speaking of command lines, I ran across David
Lord's article, Make Your Terminal Nice. And this is just sort of a little shout out because
apparently David is using Phish, which I haven't heard about for a while. So a nicer prompt
with Starship and a nicer shell with Phish. And this isn't really a detailed article,
but it's just sort of like things can be nicer. And I was reminded about this because I think
a long time ago we were talking with somebody else about Starship, and I was like, I should
try Starship. And I tried it, and for some reason, it didn't work for me. But I'm like,
I think it's time to start again. And so I looked into both of these. I tried Phish,
and I do really appreciate that it says, finally, a command line shell for the '90s, which is
awesome and funny. And it's also in Comic Sans, which I ironically appreciate.
But the scripting language is a little different, and I've got a lot of customizations for Bash.
And Zshell is very compatible with Bash, so I usually use either Bash or Zshell. And I
think I'm going to stick with that. But Starship, Starship's amazing. And so I switched to Starship.
And when you go to Starship, there's an installation guide. And really, it was so easy. There's
a macOS line. You just curl install it, or you can homebrew. I think I did the homebrew
thing. Anyway, but then how do you use it? There's a usage of just-- so I was on Zshell.
So you just had to add one line to your Zshell RC, but there's instructions on how to do
it within Bash or Phish or PowerShell. Oh, cool. It works with PowerShell. That's pretty
neat for all you Windows people out there.
But so what you get, what I really like is this notion of the directory is right there
listed above your command. And then listing what I really like is what my get branch is,
my directory, which version of Python I'm using. The example here shows a rust, but
it shows which version of Python you're using. And then also what virtual environment you're
in. And I didn't configure that at all. That's just the default. And I'm like, that's good.
I'm good with that. So I haven't configured it at all, just the default right out of the
box. It works really good. So I'm pretty happy so far.
Anyway.
Nice. Yeah, I think there's a lot of options here, right? There's on my Zshell. There's
Starship. There's all the different shells. These days, I'm using warp, warp.dev, which
is pretty excellent. I talked about that on the show before.
I kind of forgot about warp.
Yeah, warp is cool. I think the big thing, the big message people should take away from
this is don't just take what your operating system gives you. It's really quite bad. It's
not just not great. It's bad. And a lot of people who are like, I don't really like,
I'm not really a terminal person or I'm not a CLI person. That's because they didn't spend
30 minutes once. Getting into it, like, oh, actually, oh, that's nice. And you point out,
oh, well, is there a virtual environment active? What is its version? And then all these other
things, are there Git changes? Am I in a Git repository at all? Are there changes? Et cetera.
All those little, every one of those is just, oh, that's nice too. And it really adds up.
And I've always been one to, I mean, for my career, I've been usually juggling multiple
projects, multiple branches on projects and everything. And I've kind of been okay knowing
what I'm doing. However, recently I just have leveled up that of using way more branches,
way more projects, and just having that information for me right there to make sure that I know
what version of Python I'm using, what branch I'm on. And having that just ever present
is like, oh my God, I don't have to think about that anymore. Awesome. It's just right
there. So I just hit that pain point where having that information is helping me. And
so I appreciate it. So yeah.
- Very nice. Very nice.
- How about any extras? Do you have any extras for us?
- I'm feeling extras today. I got a few extras for folks. First of all, I spoke about UV
or no, Brian, you spoke about uv and I just jumped on it. We both wanted to talk about
it, but you had it first, I believe. So it was officially your topic on the show. However,
and you had Charlie Marsh on Testing Code. And so I just published an episode of Talk
Python, having a conversation with Charlie about uv and a little bit of rough and just
life in general. But I have a big backlog of shows over there that I'm working to release
because I've recorded faster than weekly release cadence. But this one seemed very timely.
So I put it to the front of the queue so people can check that out.
- I can't wait to listen.
- Yeah, it was fun. Also follow up here is there's this really interesting YouTube channel.
I don't know if it's in general interesting. It's just the one I watch is called Dark Matter.
And they have like highly produced video versions of what would be a podcast, which is kind
of interesting. So they had the one with David DHH talking about the Leaving the Cloud, Cloud
Fusion. But just like, if you look at the video side of it, it's like, it could be a
documentary sort of thing. So anyway, that's interesting. We're checking out. You want
to follow up on all my Leaving the Cloud talk I did. For those who like to live out near
the front of the leading edge, Python 3.13, Alpha 5 is available. And people can go check
that out. So it's not quite beta. And once it hits beta, there's no more changes. But
right now, there's still potentially breaking changes. Things could be added, things could
be removed, so on. But in this thing I'm linking to, there's a nice list of what's some of
the improvements. Like for example, how exciting a preliminary experimental JIT was added,
by the way. Just like throwing that out there as if it's nothing. Your Python will be compiled.
And then finally, this one comes to us from Pat Decker. Target Tech. So the tech blog
at Target. This is really cool. Said Target posted something on their blog, which I didn't
know they had a tech blog. So that's I guess news. But cool for them. Announcing Target's
open source fund. Oh, cool. Yeah. And says, "We created Target's open source fund as a
commitment to support open source projects we use. In short, Target now directly donates
to projects through an internal process that prioritizes representation of Target's technology
team." Perfect. This is perfect. Like, says, "Look, we're basing this on some of the prior
work that's out there. And in fact, the success of Sentry and Microsoft's open source funds
have inspired them to go further." And then it lists projects like, you just gave a shout
out to Homebrew, Open API Generator, SDK Man, Mach K for Kotlin and HTTP 4K. So it looks
like they do a lot of stuff with Kotlin. So they're supporting that. But whatever, right?
You support what you use. I think that's cool. Yeah. I think, yeah, every company. I mean,
every big company, even companies you don't even think use open source, use open source.
So yes, exactly. Yeah. There was a quote they gave in here that said, "The Linux Foundation
estimates that 90% of the code in production is of open source origin." Probably, you
know, using libraries based on open source. I would imagine, you know, like the fact you
use Flask would make your stuff of open source origin, I would imagine. Yeah. And I know
that there are some wrinkles in how the money often gets distributed, but some money getting
distributed is better than none. So that's good. Yeah. I'll say one more thing just to
encourage other companies, people within other companies to do this. "We recognize that it's
our responsibility to engage across a broad spectrum of activities. This includes contributing
our own software to open source, joining communities and patching software used by others, plus
funding with money the others." They mentioned. That's pretty cool. Yeah. Cool. Well, the only
extra I've got is that I have been working on a side project that I'm starting to ramp
up a little bit, and I've decided to have a start in a SaaS project. And I've started,
I thought I would get a little head start by using Corey Zhu's SaaS Pegasus. So I talked
with him just the other day. So his interview will be on Python test. But as I go along,
I'll be reporting how it's going. And yeah, I'm just excited to get started. So nice.
You're gonna live blog it? Blog the progress? Yeah, it's just gonna be slow going because
there's a lot more going on in my life, but I want to get it off the ground. Indeed. I
know the feeling. How about something funny? Yes. Let's talk about something funny. So
this comes to us from DevHumor, directly submitted by admin. It's got like a kind of a cybersecurity
thing. Here, Brian. So, you know, like social engineering, like, Hey, I'm from it. You're
going to get a pop up on your authenticator that says, you know, this, we're just checking
some systems. So if you don't mind just approving that, you know what I mean? I know, I know
it's your personal email, but we're just working on it for you. So anyway, here's the joke.
If a person who tries to trick others into giving them personal or sensitive information
is a social engineer, does that mean that the person who tries to prevent that is an
anti-social engineer? Well, I mean, I've met a lot of cybersecurity people and I maybe,
I think it might be an overgeneralization, but yeah. Yeah, it's funny. Anyway, are you
an anti-social engineer? This time it's a good thing. I know just who I need to send
this to. This is awesome. Perfect. Awesome. Thanks. Well, that was a fun episode and thank
you everybody for listening and watching and everything. And thank you, Michael.
Yep. You bet. Bye all.